README.md, before:

# OOP LRU Cache in Several Languages

An object-oriented implementation of an Least-Recently Used (LRU) Cache in several different
programming languages, using a hashmap + doubly-linked-list structure to facilitate O(1) `get` and
`put` operations.

## Background

To keep my hand in at a selection of different object-oriented programming languages, some of which
I haven't used as recently as others, I decided to implement a variant of a classic "tech test"
problem in each of them. The specification is as follows:

> In an object-oriented manner, implement an LRU (Least-Recently Used) cache. Upon instantiation,
> the size of the cache is specified. Arbitrary objects can be `put` into the cache, along with a
> retrieval key in the form of a string. Using the same string, you can `get` the objects back.
> If a `put` operation would increase the number of objects in the cache beyond the size specified
> at instantiation, the cached object that was least-recently accessed (that is, by either a `put`
> or `get` operation) is removed to make room for it. `put`ting a duplicate key into the cache
> should not add a second copy, but should make the referenced object the most-recently-accessed.
> Both the `get` and `put` operations should resolve within constant (O(1)) time.

## Understand

### Simple case with O(n) complexity

A simple LRU cache is functionally a (LIFO) queue and can be implemented as a linked-list. When a
new item is `put` into the cache, it's pushed into the head of the queue, and the tail item is
discarded if the queue would become too long. For `get` retrieval, we could iterate through the
queue until we find the matching item and return it, if present, as well as moving it up to the
head of the queue.

![Illustration showing the basic version of an LRU cache](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a7b51723-dc9d-4252-8cc4-9da83a2e9f3d)

However, this does not meet the brief because both `put` and `get` exhibit up-to O(n) complexity,
because both operations require a full iteration through the collection as well as potentially
re-arranging the queue by hoisting a new item to its head. To get O(1) complexity, we need a more
sophisticated implementation...

### Achieving O(1) complexity

An LRU cache can achieve O(1) complexity with two modifications to the above:

1. Use of a hashmap to connect the cache keys to the items in the cache, and
2. Use of a doubly-linked-list as the underlying data structure, which allows for re-arrangement
   of the queue in linear time.

![Illustration showing the O(1) version of the LRU cache](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a08d50b0-f887-4de5-b45d-f877f683148e)

Under this model:

- `get` uses the hashmap to see if an item exists; if it does, it connects its neighbours to one
  another to remove itself from the list and then inserts itself at the head, informing its new
  neighbour; then it returns the item.
- `put` uses the hashmap to see if the key already exists (and if so, treats it like `get`); if
  not, it inserts itself as the head item, links from the hashmap, and informs its neighbour. It
  also checks the size of the cache and if it would become too-large, points the tail at its
  predecessor and unlinks it from that predecessor.

Both of these operations only need to touch the hashmap and the part of the doubly-linked list
that impacts them (e.g. connecting their former neighbours to one another when moved elsewhere).

## Implementations

Each directory within this repository contains a solution in a different programming language. See
the `README.md` file within each directory for usage instructions.

Languages represented are:

- Go
- Java
- PHP
- Python
- Ruby
- TypeScript (for Node)

Commit message:

Add link to blog post to README

README.md, after:

# OOP LRU Cache in Several Languages

An object-oriented implementation of an Least-Recently Used (LRU) Cache in several different
programming languages, using a hashmap + doubly-linked-list structure to facilitate O(1) `get` and
`put` operations.

**[Read more about this project - why I did it, and what I learned - on my blog](https://danq.me/2025/06/07/lru-cache-challenge).**

## Background

To keep my hand in at a selection of different object-oriented programming languages, some of which
I haven't used as recently as others, I decided to implement a variant of a classic "tech test"
problem in each of them. The specification is as follows:

> In an object-oriented manner, implement an LRU (Least-Recently Used) cache. Upon instantiation,
> the size of the cache is specified. Arbitrary objects can be `put` into the cache, along with a
> retrieval key in the form of a string. Using the same string, you can `get` the objects back.
> If a `put` operation would increase the number of objects in the cache beyond the size specified
> at instantiation, the cached object that was least-recently accessed (that is, by either a `put`
> or `get` operation) is removed to make room for it. `put`ting a duplicate key into the cache
> should not add a second copy, but should make the referenced object the most-recently-accessed.
> Both the `get` and `put` operations should resolve within constant (O(1)) time.

## Understand

### Simple case with O(n) complexity

A simple LRU cache is functionally a (LIFO) queue and can be implemented as a linked-list. When a
new item is `put` into the cache, it's pushed into the head of the queue, and the tail item is
discarded if the queue would become too long. For `get` retrieval, we could iterate through the
queue until we find the matching item and return it, if present, as well as moving it up to the
head of the queue.

![Illustration showing the basic version of an LRU cache](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a7b51723-dc9d-4252-8cc4-9da83a2e9f3d)

However, this does not meet the brief because both `put` and `get` exhibit up-to O(n) complexity,
because both operations require a full iteration through the collection as well as potentially
re-arranging the queue by hoisting a new item to its head. To get O(1) complexity, we need a more
sophisticated implementation...

### Achieving O(1) complexity

An LRU cache can achieve O(1) complexity with two modifications to the above:

1. Use of a hashmap to connect the cache keys to the items in the cache, and
2. Use of a doubly-linked-list as the underlying data structure, which allows for re-arrangement
   of the queue in linear time.

![Illustration showing the O(1) version of the LRU cache](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a08d50b0-f887-4de5-b45d-f877f683148e)

Under this model:

- `get` uses the hashmap to see if an item exists; if it does, it connects its neighbours to one
  another to remove itself from the list and then inserts itself at the head, informing its new
  neighbour; then it returns the item.
- `put` uses the hashmap to see if the key already exists (and if so, treats it like `get`); if
  not, it inserts itself as the head item, links from the hashmap, and informs its neighbour. It
  also checks the size of the cache and if it would become too-large, points the tail at its
  predecessor and unlinks it from that predecessor.

Both of these operations only need to touch the hashmap and the part of the doubly-linked list
that impacts them (e.g. connecting their former neighbours to one another when moved elsewhere).

## Implementations

Each directory within this repository contains a solution in a different programming language. See
the `README.md` file within each directory for usage instructions.

Languages represented are:

- Go
- Java
- PHP
- Python
- Ruby
- TypeScript (for Node)
